---
layout: post
title:  "Jack Davis - Blog Post #2"
date:   2021-09-25 16:12:00 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---

At the following link, you will find my spreadsheet containing the 56-100th most used proper nouns in Gibbon Volume 1, categorized by whether they are a place, person, ethnic/national group, or other. 

[Gibbon Volume 1 Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1g9SgisPN5Vbphjf5FWSGjBSZ-uTKpawrgGGNtB4qjCU/edit?usp=sharing)

Below is my response to the second blog post's prompts, though I wasn't quite certain as to the meaning of the third question.

This paper attempts to explain a history of Gibbon’s geographical scholarship, from how he initially became interested in the subject to how he crafted various pieces based on it to how it was used as an important actor in the creation of The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. The paper recounts a timeline of his engagement with the subject and tells the reader all about the various scholarly volumes Gibbon possessed to demonstrate how he built his vast foundation of knowledge; he had many books describing the whole world, but also a great many detailing specific places and nations. The paper establishes the credibility of Gibbon as a geographical scholar so there is no question as to the historical validity of his most famous work, and it does so more than adequately; the descriptions of his collection and interest are fleshed out and comprehensive.
	
    Besides Gibbon, the article mentions several other geographers, writers, and scholars: Homer, Jean-Baptiste Bourguignon d’Anville, and Abu al Fida are just a few of the names predominantly mentioned. There is a veritable treasure trove of information about Homer available - even though not all works credited to Homer were written by the one man, he is renowned even to this day for his epics The Iliad and Odyssey. Gibbon reread Homer’s “The Geography of the Iliad” to familiarize himself with some of the geography of the region he would eventually study. Both d’Anville and al Fida were famous geographers of their time, and Gibbon effusively praises both of them, as is made evident by the paper. Information on both of these men can be found on Wikipedia, which is reliable in this case given that the information is not politically charged. Overall, the figures depicted in this paper are typically geographers whom Gibbon studied and accepted to various degrees, and with further research, one can find out who they were and how Gibbon utilized their works to augment and craft his own.
	
    I’m not quite sure what goal is being referred to in the question “what might we do to accomplish this goal better,” but I’ll assume it means the goal of properly assessing geography and contextualizing narrative within the appropriate geographical regions. As the paper mentions, Gibbon followed a sound line of thinking in saying that if he went to Italy, he’d compare his firsthand experiences with all the various accounts he’d read and add or subtract as he’d so deem fit. Of course, the means afforded to him at that time pale in comparison to the abilities we have today, and now we have the technological means with which to accurately survey any tract of land, no matter the size. We have the power to place events in any geographical region, and we are able to use technology to parse through texts such as The Decline and Fall to note how Gibbon uses geography to support his narrative. I don’t know if that answers the question, but I hope it appropriately does.
	
    There are always ways of generalizing topics such as geography, and in this case, it would be simple to expand the scope of any topic Gibbon covers to a vaster geographical region than whichever specific one he delves into. However, perhaps a more apt way of generalizing would deal with Gibbon’s adherence to very precise measurements as opposed to Homeric exaggerations. A good amount of this section of the paper is devoted to Gibbon’s criticism of imprecise geographers, who hand-waved away any areas of the world which they were not familiar with by exaggerating their spatial dimensions or replacing them with monsters or other creatures. As such, though the text doesn’t explicitly go into this, one can reasonably assume Gibbon goes into a lot of detail whenever he can in order to best portray the exact geographical measurements of areas. This may be cumbersome to read, and in some cases, one may not want to read all about the precise dimensions of this place or that; a “zooming out” might be more practical so as not to drown out the actual plot-like content of The Decline and Fall with superfluous geographical information. However, this may not be necessary or desirable, since it might taint the comprehensiveness of Gibbon’s work or remove a degree of academic precision. Either way, Gibbon’s geographical scholarship is doubtlessly impressive, and its recording in The Decline and Fall is certainly worth studying further.